IA-32 Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer's Manual
https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/download/intel-64-and-ia-32-architectures-sdm-combined-volumes-1-2a-2b-2c-2d-3a-3b-3c-3d-and-4.html
page 3271:
 Exceptions are classified as faults, traps, or aborts depending on the way they are reported and whether the 
instruction that caused the exception can be restarted without loss of program or task continuity.
 • Faults — A fault is an exception that can generally be corrected and that, once corrected, allows the program 
to be restarted with no loss of continuity. When a fault is reported, the processor restores the machine state to 
the state prior to the beginning of execution of the faulting instruction. The return address (saved contents of 
the CS and EIP registers) for the fault handler points to the faulting instruction, rather than to the instruction 
following the faulting instruction.
 • Traps — A trap is an exception that is reported immediately following the execution of the trapping instruction. 
Traps allow execution of a program or task to be continued without loss of program continuity. The return 
address for the trap handler points to the instruction to be executed after the trapping instruction.
 • Aborts — An abort is an exception that does not always report the precise location of the instruction causing 
the exception and does not allow a restart of the program or task that caused the exception. Aborts are used to 
report severe errors, such as hardware errors and inconsistent or illegal values in system tables

p3138
The control registers are summarized below, and each architecturally defined control field in
these control registers are described individually. In Figure 2-6, the width of the register in
64-bit mode is indicated in parenthesis (except for CR0).
• CR0 — Contains system control flags that control operating mode and states of the
processor. 
• CR1 — Reserved.
• CR2 — Contains the page-fault linear address (the linear address that caused a page fault).
• CR3 — Contains the physical address of the base of the page directory and two flags (PCD
and PWT). This register is also known as the page-directory base register (PDBR). Only
the most-significant bits (less the lower 12 bits) of the base address are specified; the lower
12 bits of the address are assumed to be 0. The page directory must thus be aligned to a
page (4-KByte) boundary. The PCD and PWT flags control caching of the page directory
in the processor’s internal data caches (they do not control TLB caching of page-directory
information).
When using the physical address extension, the CR3 register contains the base address of
the page-directory-pointer table In IA-32e mode, the CR3 register contains the base
address of the PML4 table.
See also: Section 3.8, “36-Bit Physical Addressing Using the PAE Paging Mechanism.”
• CR4 — Contains a group of flags that enable several architectural extensions, and indicate
operating system or executive support for specific processor capabilities. The control
registers can be read and loaded (or modified) using the move-to-or-from-control-registers
forms of the MOV instruction. In protected mode, the MOV instructions allow the control
registers to be read or loaded (at privilege level 0 only). This restriction means that
application programs or operating-system procedures (running at privilege levels 1, 2, or
3) are prevented from reading or loading the control registers. 
• CR8 — Provides read and write access to the Task Priority Register (TPR). It specifies the
priority threshold value that operating systems use to control the priority class of external
interrupts allowed to interrupt the processor. This register is available only in 64-bit mode.
However, interrupt filtering continues to apply in compatibility mode.

p3143
CR4.OSXMMEXCPT
Operating System Support for Unmasked SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions (bit 10 of CR4) — 
When set, indicates that the operating system supports the handling of unmasked SIMD floating-point 
exceptions through an exception handler that is invoked when a SIMD floating-point exception (#XM) is 
generated. SIMD floating-point exceptions are only generated by SSE/SSE2/SSE3/SSE4.1 SIMD floatingpoint instructions. 
The operating system or executive must explicitly set this flag. If this flag is not set, the processor will 
generate an invalid opcode exception (#UD) whenever it detects an unmasked SIMD floating-point exception.